PEP 750: major updates to "Template Strings" based on community feedback (#4062)
python/peps: peps/pep-0750.rst

    attributes = {"src": "shrubbery.jpg", "alt": "looks nice"}
    template = t"<img {attributes} />"
    assert html(template) == '<img src="shrubbery.jpg" alt="looks nice" />'

Neither of these examples is possible with f-strings. By providing a 
mechanism to intercept and transform interpolated values, template strings
enable a wide range of string processing use cases.

Specification
=============

Template String Literals
------------------------

This PEP introduces a new string prefix, ``t``, to define template string literals.
These literals resolve to a new type, ``types.Template``.

The following code creates a ``Template`` instance:

.. code-block:: python

    from types import Template
    template = t"This is a template string."
    assert isinstance(template, Template)

Template string literals support the full syntax of :pep:`701`. This includes
the ability to nest template strings within interpolations, as well as the ability
to use all valid quote marks (``'``, ``"``, ``'''``, and ``"""``). Like other string 
prefixes, the ``t`` prefix must immediately precede the quote. Like f-strings, 
both lowercase ``t`` and uppercase ``T`` prefixes are supported. Like 

> f-strings, t-strings may not be combined with the ``b`` or ``u`` prefixes. 

Reviewer: Quick question: t-strings cannot be combined with `b`, `u` or `f`?

Reviewer 2: Thanks @willingc! That's correct, t-strings cannot be combined with neither one of these. Will fix.

Author: Yes, very good catch. Thanks!

        return value

    def f(template: Template) -> str:
        parts = []
        for arg in template.args:
            match arg:
                case str() as s:
                    parts.append(s)
                case Interpolation(value, _, conv, format_spec):
                    value = convert(value, conv)
                    value = format(value, format_spec)
                    parts.append(value)
        return "".join(parts)

.. note:: Example code

   See `fstring.py`__ and `test_fstring.py`__.

   __ https://github.com/davepeck/pep750-examples/blob/main/pep/fstring.py
   __ https://github.com/davepeck/pep750-examples/blob/main/pep/test_fstring.py

Example: Structured Logging
---------------------------

Structured logging allows developers to log data in both a human-readable format
*and* a structured format (like JSON) using only a single logging call. This is
useful for log aggregation systems that process the structured format while
still allowing developers to easily read their logs.

We present two different approaches to implementing structured logging with
template strings.

Approach 1: Custom Log Messages
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

> The `Python Logging Cookbook <https://docs.python.org/3/howto/logging-cookbook.html>`_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The :ref:`Python Logging Cookbook <python:logging-cookbook>`
```

Author: Thank you for this. Also: I should really have learned this syntax by now! :-)

Security Implications
=====================

The security implications of working with template strings, with respect to
interpolations, are as follows:

1. Scope lookup is the same as f-strings (lexical scope). This model has been
   shown to work well in practice.

2. Code that processes ``Template`` instances can ensure that any interpolations
   are processed in a safe fashion, including respecting the context in which
   they appear.

How To Teach This
==================

Template strings have several audiences:

- Developers using template strings and processing functions
- Authors of template processing code, and
- Framework authors who build interesting machinery with template strings

We hope that teaching developers will be straightforward. At a glance,
template strings look just like f-strings. Their syntax is familiar and the
scoping rules remain the same.

The first thing developers must learn is that template strings don't evaluate
to strings; instead, they evaluate to a new type, ``Template``. This type is a
simple type intended to be used by template processing code. It's not until
developers call *that* code that they get the result they want: typically,

> a string, although processing code can of course return any arbitrary type.

Reviewer 3: I like the updated How to Teach this, my only suggestion for an addition would be something along the lines of:

> "Developers need not know the semantics of the ``Template`` type to use t-strings, and can be taught that t-strings must always be used with a consumer function. Similarly to descriptors, many more developers will use t-strings than will write t-string processing functions"

This may be over-egging it a little much, though

Author: I'm okay with a little extra egg!

Author: I added some egg (and removed a little too). It is hopefully a delicious balance of egg.

the text of the original template string from a ``Template`` instance. This was
rejected as being overly complex.

There are several limitations with respect to round-tripping to the original
source text:

- ``Interpolation.format_spec`` defaults to ``""`` if not provided. It is therefore
  impossible to distinguish ``t"{expr}"`` from ``t"{expr:}"``.
- The debug specifier, ``=``, is treated as a special case. It is therefore not
  possible to distinguish ``t"{expr=}"`` from ``t"expr={expr}"``.
- Finally, format specifiers in f-strings allow arbitrary nesting. In this PEP
  and in the reference implementation, the specifier is eagerly evaluated
  to set the ``format_spec`` in the ``Interpolation``, thereby losing
  the original expressions. For example:

.. code-block:: python

    value = 42
    precision = 2
    template = t"Value: {value:.{precision}f}"
    assert template.args[1].format_spec == ".2f"

We do not anticipate that these limitations will be a significant issue in practice.
Developers who need to obtain the original template string literal can always
use ``inspect.getsource()`` or similar tools.

String Concatenation
--------------------

> Template string concatenation isn't supported, which is `unlike all other string literals
> <https://docs.python.org/3/reference/lexical_analysis.html#string-literal-concatenation>`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Template string concatenation isn't supported, which is :ref:`unlike all other
string literals <python:string-concatenation>`.
```

Author: After quite a bit of discussion and agreement amongst all PEP authors, this has been removed from the PEP in favor of _supporting_ concatenation.

   shown to work well in practice.

2. Code that processes ``Template`` instances can ensure that any interpolations
   are processed in a safe fashion, including respecting the context in which
   they appear.

How To Teach This
==================

Template strings have several audiences:

- Developers using template strings and processing functions
- Authors of template processing code, and
- Framework authors who build interesting machinery with template strings

We hope that teaching developers will be straightforward. At a glance,
template strings look just like f-strings. Their syntax is familiar and the
scoping rules remain the same.

The first thing developers must learn is that template strings don't evaluate
to strings; instead, they evaluate to a new type, ``Template``. This type is a
simple type intended to be used by template processing code. It's not until
developers call *that* code that they get the result they want: typically,
a string, although processing code can of course return any arbitrary type.

(There is perhaps an interesting parallel between learning t-strings and
learning decorators. At a glance, template strings and decorators *look* like

> simple syntax, but they are both powerful tools that add new expessiveness

Author: Thanks! Fixed.

    assert template.args[0] == "Hello "
    assert template.args[1].value == "World"
    assert template.args[2] == ""

These rules imply that the ``args`` attribute will always have an odd length.
As a consequence, empty strings are added to the sequence when the template
begins or ends with an interpolation, or when two interpolations are adjacent:

.. code-block:: python

    a, b = "a", "b"
    template = t"{a}{b}"
    assert len(template.args) == 5
    assert template.args[0] == ""
    assert template.args[1].value == "a"
    assert template.args[2] == ""
    assert template.args[3].value == "b"
    assert template.args[4] == ""

Most template processing code will not care about this detail and will use
either structural pattern matching or ``isinstance()`` checks to distinguish
between the two types of elements in the sequence.

The detail exists because it allows for performance optimizations in template
processing code. For example, a template processor could cache the static parts
of the template and only reprocess the dynamic parts when the template is
evaluated with different values. Access to the static parts can be done with
``template.args[::2]``.

> Interleaving is an invariant mainted by the ``Template`` class. Developers can

Author: Thank you!

resumed by a different author in March 2023, introducing "t-strings" as template
literal strings, and built atop PEP 701.

The authors of this PEP consider it to be a generalization and simplification
of the updated work in PEP 501. (That PEP has also recently been updated to

> reflect the new ideas in this PEP.)

Author: Fixed.

Motivation
==========

Python f-strings are easy to use and very popular. Over time, however, developers

> have encountered limitations that make them unsuitable for certain use cases. 

Author: Yeah. I've been looking for the perfect reference but, even though the web is littered with conversations where devs discover that their f-string SQL or HTML code is dangerously broken, there doesn't seem to be an obvious "best" link. Still looking!

> have encountered limitations that make them unsuitable for certain use cases. 

Author: I hate to pick on any specific poster on the Internet, but this 2024 thread on discuss.python.org is pretty spot on for a reference:

https://discuss.python.org/t/how-to-do-multi-line-f-strings/46634

What do you think?

> have encountered limitations that make them unsuitable for certain use cases. 

Reviewer 3: Perhaps, though none outstanding:

* https://realpython.com/python-f-strings/#sql-database-queries
* https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/5.1/ref/utils/#django.utils.html.format_html
* https://forum.djangoproject.com/t/8212 or https://mail.python.org/archives/list/python-ideas@python.org/thread/G723JTLPTG5L6LWU2XLVGHUZRHEWLRHT/
* https://www.pythondiscord.com/pages/tags/sql-fstring/

> have encountered limitations that make them unsuitable for certain use cases. 

Author: I decided that Django's `format_html()` says the right things (and I like linking to something official that's closely tied to the python community).

In particular, f-strings provide no way to intercept and transform interpolated 
values before they are combined into a final string.

> As a result, incautious use of f-strings can lead to security vulnerabilities. 
> For example, a user executing a SQL query with `sqlite3 <https://docs.python.org/3/library/sqlite3.html>`__
> may be tempted to use an f-string to embed values into their SQL expression 
> instead of using the ``?`` placeholder and passing the values as a tuple to 
> avoid a `SQL injection attack <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL_injection>`__.

Reviewer 3: I don't think mentioning `?` has much value, the point is more that f-strings can be bad. 

```suggestion
As a result, incautious use of f-strings can lead to security vulnerabilities. 
For example, a user executing an SQL query with :mod:`python:sqlite3`
may be tempted to use an f-string to embed values into their SQL expression,
which can be vulnerable to an `SQL injection attack <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SQL_injection>`__.
```

Author: Agree, this is strictly better.

More broadly, the inability to transform interpolated values before they are
combined into a final string limits the utility of f-strings in more complex
string processing tasks. 

Template strings address these problems by providing 
developers with access to the string and its interpolated values before they 
are combined. 

For example, imagine we want to generate some HTML. Using template 
strings, we can define an ``html`` function that allows us to automatically 

> sanitize interpolated values:

Reviewer 3: Seems a bit odd to pivot from SQL as the motivating example above to HTML here -- perhaps one could be changed?

Author: I wanted to give two distinct injection/XSS-style examples, but agree there should be better connecting content here.

Author: Took a stab at this. See how you like it.

.. code-block:: python

    evil = "<script>alert('evil')</script>"
    template = t"<p>{evil}</p>"
    assert html(template) == "<p>&lt;script&gt;alert('evil')&lt;/script&gt;</p>"

> Likewise, our hypothetical ``html()`` can make it easy for developers to add 
> attributes to HTML elements using a dictionary:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Likewise, our hypothetical ``html()`` function can make it easy for developers
to add attributes to HTML elements using a dictionary:
```

.. code-block:: python

    attributes = {"src": "shrubbery.jpg", "alt": "looks nice"}
    template = t"<img {attributes} />"
    assert html(template) == '<img src="shrubbery.jpg" alt="looks nice" />'

> Neither of these examples is possible with today's f-strings. By providing a 
> mechanism to intercept and transform interpolated values, template strings
> enable a wide range of string processing use cases.

Reviewer 3: This paragraph feels fairly similar to "Template strings address these problems by providing 
developers with access to the string and its interpolated values before they are combined.". Could the paragraphs be combined?

```suggestion
Neither of these examples is possible with f-strings. By providing a 
mechanism to intercept and transform interpolated values, template strings
enable a wide range of string processing use cases.
```

Author: I didn't entirely get rid of the duplication but hopefully I've shortened it to the point where it reads better.

Specification
=============

Template String Literals
------------------------

This PEP introduces a new string prefix, ``t``, to define template string literals.
These literals resolve to a new type, ``types.Template``.

The following code creates a ``Template`` instance:

.. code-block:: python

    from types import Template
    template = t"This is a template string."
    assert isinstance(template, Template)

Template string literals support the full syntax of :pep:`701`. This includes
the ability to nest template strings within interpolations, as well as the ability

> to use any quote mark in the string literal. Like other string prefixes, the template

Reviewer 3: Given this is within "Specification", perhaps enumerate (`'`, `"`, `'''`, `"""`) instead of "any quote mark"?

prefix must immediately precede the quote mark. Like f-strings, both lowercase 
``t`` and uppercase ``T`` prefixes are supported. Like f-strings, t-strings may
not be combined with the ``b`` or ``u`` prefixes. They *may* be combined with 
the ``r`` prefix; see the `Raw Template Strings`_ section below for more information.

> The ``Template`` Type
> ---------------------

Reviewer 3: We generally prefer sentence case for headings
```suggestion
The ``Template`` type
---------------------
```

Author: @AA-Turner Ah, is that a change from [PEP 12](https://peps.python.org/pep-0012/#section-headings)? I was trying to follow its guidance; it says:

> PEP headings must begin in column zero and the initial letter of each word must be capitalized as in book titles.

(Personally, I prefer sentence case &mdash; it feels easier on the eyes!)

Reviewer 3: You are entirely right, please ignore me! I think devguide is only for the CPython documentation, I just misremembered.

Author: 👍 thanks!

> Template strings evaluate to an instance of a new type, ``Template``, found
> in the ``<TBC>`` module (proposed: ``types``):

Reviewer 3: You've used `types.Template` elsewhere
```suggestion
Template strings evaluate to an instance of a new type, ``types.Template``:
```

Author: I'll fix this for now, but I have a feeling we'll want to revisit/bikeshed this a bit.

@lysnikolaou and I aren't in love with `types.Template` but I don't yet have a better suggestion.

.. code-block:: python

>     @dataclass(frozen=True)

Reviewer 3: Will this be a dataclass at runtime (`assert dataclasses.is_dataclass(t'') is True`)?

Reviewer 3: (Note I'm not sure it should be, but if it isn't, we shouldn't advertise that it will be)

Author: From the PEP:

> The use of ``@dataclass`` in the definition of ``Template`` above (and 
``Interpolation`` below) is meant to be suggestive; the exact implementation 
in CPython may differ, but developers can expect that ``Template`` instances 
can be constructed and utilized in the same way as a typical dataclass.

We went back and forth on this during editing.

@lysnikolaou Maybe I should just bite the bullet, write an `__init__()` for both `Template` and `Interpolation`, and I suppose also indicate their `__match_args__`?

Reviewer 4: I assume Template will be written in C and therefore cannot be exactly a dataclass.

Reviewer 3: I'd support the ``__init__`` approach: better to be explicit, and an extra few lines won't meaningfully affect the length of this PEP.

Author: @AA-Turner @lysnikolaou Done!

    class Template:
        args: Sequence[str | Interpolation]

The ``args`` attribute provides access to the string parts and
any interpolations in the literal:

.. code-block:: python

    name = "World"
    template = t"Hello {name}"
    assert isinstance(template.args[0], str)
    assert isinstance(template.args[1], Interpolation)
    assert template.args[0] == "Hello "
    assert template.args[1].value == "World"

The use of ``@dataclass`` in the definition of ``Template`` above (and 
``Interpolation`` below) is meant to be suggestive; the exact implementation 
in CPython may differ, but developers can expect that ``Template`` instances 
can be constructed and utilized in the same way as a typical dataclass.

See `Interleaving of Template.args`_ below for more information on how the 
``args`` attribute is structured.

> The ``Interpolation`` Type
> --------------------------

Reviewer 3: As above
```suggestion
The ``Interpolation`` type
--------------------------
```

Author: (resolving; once I understand about PEP 12 I'll go back and fix all the section headings in one go)

The ``Interpolation`` type represents an expression inside a template string. 
Like ``Template``, it is a new concrete type found in the ``types`` module:

.. code-block:: python

>     @dataclass(frozen=True)

Reviewer 3: As above, will this be a dataclass at runtime (`assert dataclasses.is_dataclass(...) is True`)?

    class Interpolation:
        value: object
        expr: str
        conv: Literal["a", "r", "s"] | None = None
        format_spec: str = ""

The ``value`` attribute is the evaluated result of the interpolation:

.. code-block:: python

    name = "World"
    template = t"Hello {name}"
    assert template.args[1].value == "World"

The ``expr`` attribute is the *original text* of the interpolation:

.. code-block:: python

    name = "World"
    template = t"Hello {name}"
    assert template.args[1].expr == "name"

We expect that the ``expr`` attribute will not be used in most template processing
code. It is provided for completeness and for use in debugging and introspection.
See both the `Common Patterns Seen in Processing Templates`_ section and the
`Examples`_ section for more information on how to process template strings.

> The ``conv`` attribute is the `optional conversion <https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#format-string-syntax>`_

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ``conv`` attribute is the :ref:`optional conversion <python:formatstrings>`
```

to be used, one of ``r``, ``s``, and ``a``, corresponding to ``repr()``, 
``str()``, and ``ascii()`` conversions. As with f-strings, no other conversions 
are supported:

.. code-block:: python

    name = "World"
    template = t"Hello {name!r}"
    assert template.args[1].conv == "r"

If no conversion is provided, ``conv`` is ``None``. 

> The ``format_spec`` attribute is the `format specification <https://docs.python.org/3/library/string.html#format-specification-mini-language>`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The ``format_spec`` attribute is the :ref:`format specification <python:formatspec>`.
```

As with f-strings, this is an arbitrary string that defines how to present the value:

.. code-block:: python

    value = 42
    template = t"Value: {value:.2f}"
    assert template.args[1].format_spec == ".2f"

Format specifications in f-strings can themselves contain interpolations. This
is permitted in template strings as well; ``format_spec`` is set to the eagerly 
evaluated result:

.. code-block:: python
   
    value = 42
    precision = 2
    template = t"Value: {value:.{precision}f}"
    assert template.args[1].format_spec == ".2f"

If no format specification is provided, ``format_spec`` defaults to an empty 
string (``""``). This matches the ``format_spec`` parameter of Python's 

> `format() <https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html#format>`_ built-in.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:func:`python:format` built-in.
```

> Unlike f-strings, it is up to code that processes the template to determine how to
> interpret the ``conv`` and ``format_spec`` attributes. It is not required that they
> be used in any particular way, but it is recommended that they be respected when
> present and, to the extent possible, match the behavior of f-strings. It would
> be surprising if, for example, a template string that uses ``{value:.2f}`` did not
> round the value to two decimal places when processed.

Reviewer 3: Perhaps rewrite in the active voice?:

```suggestion
Unlike f-strings, it is up to code that processes the template to determine how to
interpret the ``conv`` and ``format_spec`` attributes. 
Such code is not required to use these attributes, but when present they should
be respected, and to the extent possible match the behavior of f-strings.
It would be surprising if, for example, a template string that uses ``{value:.2f}``
did not round the value to two decimal places when processed.
```

        """Render static parts lowercased and interpolations uppercased."""
        parts: list[str] = []
        for arg in template.args:        
            if isinstance(arg, Interpolation):
                parts.append(str(arg.value).upper())
            else:
                parts.append(arg.lower())
        return "".join(parts)

    name = "world"
    assert lower_upper(t"HELLO {name}") == "hello WORLD"

There is no requirement that template strings are processed in any particular 
way. Code that processes templates has no obligation to return a string. 
Template strings are a flexible, general-purpose feature.

See the `Common Patterns Seen in Processing Templates`_ section for more
information on how to process template strings. See the `Examples`_ section
for detailed working examples.

No Support for Concatenation
----------------------------

Because template strings are designed to be used in custom DSLs, they do not
support explicit concatenation using ``+``. This is unlike all other string
literals in Python today. Concatenation may have different semantics in 
different DSLs or no meaningful semantics at all; accordingly, the ``Template`` 

> type that t-strings evaluate to does not support ``__add__`` or similar methods.

Reviewer 3: Elsewhere you talk more broadly than just DSLs -- are we being more restrictive here? I think it's fine just to say that concatenation isn't supported.

Author: Agree; fixed.

The following code will raise a ``TypeError``:

.. code-block:: python

    t"Hello " + t"World"

Implicit concatenation is also not supported. The following code will raise 
a ``SyntaxError``:

.. code-block:: python

    t"Hello " "World"

> Support for the Debug Specifier
> -------------------------------

Reviewer 3: It wasn't immediatley clear what the debug specifier was from the title, perhaps:
```suggestion
Support for the debug specifier (``=``)
---------------------------------------
```

> The debug specifier, ``=``, is supported in template strings and behaves similarly
> to how it behaves in f-strings. The specifier
> was introduced in `gh-80998 <https://github.com/python/cpython/issues/80998>`_
> outside of any PEP. The distinction in behavior is due to technical limitations
> of the implementation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The debug specifier, ``=``, is supported in template strings and behaves similarly
to how it behaves in f-strings, though due to limitations of the implementation
there is a slight difference.
```

In particular, ``t'{expr=}'`` is treated as ``t'expr={expr}'``:

.. code-block:: python

    name = "World"
    template = t"Hello {name=}"
    assert template.args[0] == "Hello name="
    assert template.args[1].value == "World"

> Raw Template Strings
> --------------------

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Raw template strings
--------------------
```

> Raw template strings are supported using the ``rt`` prefix:

Reviewer 3: Is `tr''` supported?

Author: Yes. Fixed in the PEP.

consistent with Python's raw string behavior.

As with regular template strings, interpolations in raw template strings are 
processed normally, allowing for the combination of raw string behavior and 
dynamic content.

Interpolation Expression Evaluation
-----------------------------------

Expression evaluation for interpolations is the same as in :pep:`498#expression-evaluation`:

    The expressions that are extracted from the string are evaluated in the context
    where the template string appeared. This means the expression has full access to its
    lexical scope, including local and global variables. Any valid Python expression
    can be used, including function and method calls.

Template strings are evaluated eagerly from left to right, just like f-strings. This means that
interpolations are evaluated immediately when the template string is processed, not deferred
or wrapped in lambdas.

Exceptions
----------

Exceptions raised in t-string literals are the same as those raised in f-string 
literals.

Interleaving of ``Template.args``
---------------------------------

As a detail of the ``Template`` type, the ``args`` attribute is a sequence that

> alternates between string literals and ``Interpolation`` instances. Specifically:

Reviewer 3: Is this an implementation detail or formally specified?

Author: Formally specified.

write a function ``f(template: Template) -> str`` that processes a ``Template``
in much the same way as an f-string literal, returning the same result:

.. code-block:: python

    name = "World"
    value = 42
    templated = t"Hello {name!r}, value: {value:.2f}"
    formatted = f"Hello {name!r}, value: {value:.2f}"
    assert f(templated) == formatted

The ``f()`` function supports both conversion specifiers like ``!r`` and format
specifiers like ``:.2f``. The full code is fairly simple:

.. code-block:: python

    from types import Template, Interpolation

    def convert(value: object, conv: Literal["a", "r", "s"] | None) -> object:
        if conv == "a":
            return ascii(value)
        elif conv == "r":
            return repr(value)
        elif conv == "s":
            return str(value)
        return value

    def f(template: Template) -> str:
        parts = []
        for arg in template.args:
            match arg:
                case str() as s:
                    parts.append(s)
                case Interpolation(value, _, conv, format_spec):
                    value = convert(value, conv)
                    value = format(value, format_spec)

>                     parts.append(value)

Reviewer 3: Perhaps simpler to do `if isinstance(arg, str) / else`? `match`/`case` seems a bit much, especially given that these are concrete types.

Author: Yeah. I'll defer to the community here as to what the most readable form is.

I think there's a general feeling that code that processes `Template` will often do interesting positional pattern matching, so it was probably worth including an example or two.

        return "".join(parts)

> (Example code: see `fstring.py <https://github.com/davepeck/pep750-examples/blob/main/pep/fstring.py>`_ 
> and `test_fstring.py <https://github.com/davepeck/pep750-examples/blob/main/pep/test_fstring.py>`_.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. note:: Example code

   See `fstring.py`__ and `test_fstring.py`__.

   __ https://github.com/davepeck/pep750-examples/blob/main/pep/fstring.py
   __ https://github.com/davepeck/pep750-examples/blob/main/pep/test_fstring.py
```

in the `pep750-examples repository <https://github.com/davepeck/pep750-examples/>`_.)

Example: HTML Templating
-------------------------

This PEP contains several short HTML templating examples. It turns out that the 
"hypothetical" ``html()`` function mentioned in the  `Motivation`_ section 
(and a few other places in this PEP) exists and is available in the 
`pep750-examples repository <https://github.com/davepeck/pep750-examples/>`_.
If you're thinking about building a DSL with template strings, we hope you'll
find it useful.

Backwards Compatibility
=======================

Like f-strings, use of template strings will be a syntactic backwards incompatibility
with previous versions.

Security Implications
=====================

The security implications of working with template strings, with respect to
interpolations, are as follows:

1. Scope lookup is the same as f-strings (lexical scope). This model has been
   shown to work well in practice.

2. Code that processes ``Template`` instances can ensure that any interpolations 
   are processed in a safe fashion, including respecting the context in the 

>    target DSL.

Reviewer 3: Same comment as above on just DSLs vs the wider use-cases aluded to in the introduction

Author: Cleaned this up too. Thanks.

``Template`` is a simple type intended to be used by template processing code.
It's not until you call that code that you get the result you want: typically,
a string, although processing code can of course return any arbitrary type.

Template function authors think in terms of making a DSL. They have
business policies they want to provide in a Python-familiar way. With template
functions, Python is going to do much of the pre-processing. This lowers
the bar for making a DSL.

Template authors can begin with simple use cases. After authors gain experience, 
template strings can be used to add larger patterns, like parsing to intermediate
representations or context-sensitive processing of interpolations.

Each of these points also match the teaching of decorators. In that case,
a learner consumes something which applies to the code just after it. They
don't need to know too much about decorator theory to take advantage of the
utility.

Common Patterns Seen in Processing Templates
============================================

Structural Pattern Matching
---------------------------

Iterating over the ``Template.args`` with structural pattern matching is the expected

> best practice for many template function implementations:

Reviewer 3: Can you expand on why this is seen as better than e.g. `isinstance` checks?

Author: The expectation (admittedly unproven so far) is that developers will often want to write interesting pattern matches against `Interpolation`.

        ):
            ...

Like ``Template``, ``Interpolation`` is immutable. Its attributes cannot be

> reassigned. (The ``value`` attribute may of course itself be mutable, but 

Reviewer 5: `value` is immtuable, but it may point to a mutable object. Generally this is referred to as being shallow immutable.

Author: Yes, this is what was intended. I'll rewrite for clarity.

learning decorators. At a glance, template strings and decorators *look* like
simple syntax, but they are both powerful tools that add new expressiveness
to the language. Developers can use both t-strings and decorators
without ever understanding their underlying machinery.)

Over time, developers will learn to author their own template processing code.
Writing processing code often requires thinking in terms of formal grammars.
Developers will need to learn how to parse the ``args`` attribute of a
``Template`` instance and how to process interpolations in a context-sensitive
fashion. More sophisticated grammars will likely require parsing to intermediate
representations like an AST. Great template processing code will handle format
specifiers and conversions when appropriate. Writing production-grade template
processing code -- for instance, to support HTML templates -- can be a large
undertaking.

We expect that template strings will provide framework authors with a powerful
new tool in their toolbox. While the functionality of template strings overlaps
with existing tools like template engines, t-strings move that logic into

> Python itself. Bringing the full power and generality of Python to bear on

Author: Yes, this is a clearer way of writing it. Thanks!

separate PEP.

> Removing ``conv`` From ``Interpolation``

Author: @ncoghlan Just added this!
